At Luke chapter 6 and verse 40, Jesus said a student is not above his teacher, but everyone
who is perfectly instructed will be like his teacher.
Now what comes to your mind when you think about this verse?
Maybe you tend to think of it in terms of when you conduct a Bible study with someone.
Or you might think about it when you go to a program like Gilead and you're instructed
there.
But in reality, we are all teachers every day in the classroom of Christian living.
If we have responsibilities, if we enjoy certain privileges, our brothers and sisters
will watch us.
And those who work closely with us will learn from us and they will become like us.
Take the example of the Apostle Paul.
Now we know Paul was an outstanding teacher.
Can you imagine under inspiration he had the privilege to write 14 books of the Christian
Greek scriptures?
Yet that was not the only way that the Apostle Paul taught others.
His example in Christian living was very powerful.
Now what could people learn from the example of Paul?
Let's consider some examples.
Let's go first to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, and let's
look at verse 7.
On the contrary, we became gentle in your midst as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for
her own children.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good
news of God, but also our very selves because you became so beloved to us.
Paul worked hard for the brothers.
He was kind, he was gentle with them.
He was willing to give not just the message of the truth, but as he says in verse 8, our
very selves and brothers, that was the truth.
Paul said he was willing to do all things for the sake of the good news and just consider
some of the things that he did.
Let's go to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and just remind ourselves of some of the things
Paul went through.
2 Corinthians 11 verse 23, Paul says, are they ministers of Christ?
I reply like a man, man.
I am more outstandingly one.
I have done more work, been imprisoned more often, suffered countless beatings and experienced
many near deaths.
Five times I received 40 strokes, less one from the Jews.
Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I experienced shipwreck,
a night and a day I have spent in the open sea and the list just goes on.
What was, what could these ones who worked with Paul learn from him?
In other words, how did Paul's powerful example of love for God, of endurance, of hard work
and true unselfishness affect those around him?
Well consider Timothy who worked so closely with Paul.
What did Paul say about him?
Let's go to Philippians chapter 2, Philippians chapter 2 and verse 20.
Paul said, for I have no one else of a disposition like his who will genuinely care for your concerns,
for all the others are seeking their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
But you know the proof he gave of himself that like a child with a father, he slaved with
me to advance the good news.
Well now here's a question.
Why was Timothy that way?
Why was Timothy so unselfish?
Why did he work so hard for other people?
Well no doubt he was perfectly instructed, not just by the words, but by the example of Paul.
Well the same thing could be true of Priscilla and Aquila.
Paul said about them that they had risked their necks for him.
Well where did they learn that from?
You see we could go on with other examples of other close associates of Paul, but what
is the point?
Paul's example in Christian living instructed those around him, they became like Paul.
Now why is that important to you who are graduating today from the Watchtower Bible School of
Gilead?
Well very soon you're going to be graduates and your mandate is to go forth.
And strengthen and stabilize the field and branch territory.
But now that's a big long term isn't it?
What is the field and branch territory?
It's people, it's people, spiritual men and women who want to be learned, who want to
learn, who want to be trained, who want to reach the spiritual goals that they've set
for themselves, and who want to grow to Christian maturity.
And because you are a Gilead graduate, they will watch you, they will listen to you,
and they will be instructed by your example.
When I went to serve many years ago where the need was great on the island of Newfoundland,
we were so blessed to have in our congregation a graduate of the seventh class of Gilead,
brother Fred Weins.
Brother Weins was an anointed brother who was baptized in 1928.
Now I'll be honest with you, I don't remember even one talk that Fred Weins gave.
But his warmth, his sense of humor, his zeal for the ministry and his love for people,
the example that he set is truly unforgettable.
Fred talked to everyone, and I mean everyone in the ministry.
One time we were out in the service, we pulled into the gas station, as soon as we stopped
the car, Fred jumped out, and when we were ready to leave, we looked around to try to find
Fred.
Wasn't in the store, wasn't in the bathroom, he was nowhere to be seen.
Finally we thought we'd check the other cars, well that's exactly where Fred was.
Fred had knocked on the window and gotten in the car and started to preach to all the
people in that car.
Fred has now gone on to his reward, but his example of warmth, kindness, zeal, and love
for people continue to teach me and many others who knew him well right down to this day.
So here is the question that rests before you.
What will you teach others by your example?
Be like Paul.
Love your brothers and sisters right from your heart.
Through your example, create an atmosphere of warmth and love like a greenhouse where
young plants can blossom and grow.
Your fine example can warm up a congregation, a circuit, a Bethel department, perhaps even
a branch office, never allow yourself to be a cold executive who creates an atmosphere
like a freezer, because those little plants will shrivel up and they will stop growing
in that environment.
Be willing to impart not just the many wonderful truths of God's word that you learned at
Gilead, but your own heart and your own soul.
And then because those beautiful spiritual people you work with will be properly instructed.
What will they be like?
They will be just like you.
And may the blessing of our marvelous God, Jehovah, go with you wherever you go.